Dear Dr. Chu:

Manuscript CAL-2019-10-0108 entitled "A High-Performance Design of Generalized Pipeline Cellular Array" which you submitted to the IEEE Computer Architecture Letters, has been reviewed.  The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.

The reviewers feel that your submission is promising, but have indicated significant concerns.  Before they can further evaluate it, they have requested some major revisions. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the editor's and reviewer(s)' comments and then revise and resubmit your manuscript. The resubmission will be given a new manuscript ID but will be linked to the previous version and will be sent back to the reviewers for their evaluation.

In order to preserve the immediacy that is part of Computer Architecture Letters' mission, the resubmission should be completed within six weeks.  Furthermore, please note that ONLY ONE REVISE & RESUBMIT IS ALLOWED. If the resubmission does not sufficiently address the reviewers concerns, we must decline to publish the work.

To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/cal and enter your Author Center, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a Resubmission."

Please be sure to include a response indicating how you have addressed each of the editor's and reviewer(s)' comments.  We prefer an appendix for this purpose, included at the end of your manuscript, instead of a separate document. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your responses.

Once the revised manuscript is prepared, you can upload it and submit it through your Author Center. IMPORTANT:  Please submit camera-ready copy.  You must use the Computer Architecture Letters template, available at https://www.computer.org/publications/author-resources/peer-review/journals#templates.

Unlike typical IEEE transactions, your names and affiliations should both appear in the masthead ("conference style").  Please also be sure that table captions appear above tables, and that the bibliography is in alphabetical order.

Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to the IEEE Computer Architecture Letters and we look forward to receiving your resubmission.


Sincerely,

IEEE Computer Architecture Letters Editorial Office


---

EIC: First, I apologize for the horrible delay in getting this decision to you.  Your submission was plagued by an inability to find reviewers, tardy reviewers, and a tardy associate editor.   This shouldn't happen, and I apologize.   Regarding the paper itself, the reviewers are consistent in the issues they raise.  They feel there could be a contribution in your work, but it's not clear with respect to prior work.  


Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:

Reviewer: 1

Recommendation: Revise & Resubmit (paper requires more than a minor revision)

Comments:
(There are no comments. Please check to see if comments were included as a file attachment with this e-mail or as an attachment in your Author Center.)

Additional Questions:
1. Confidence in your review: Low

2. What is the important insight or idea that this paper contributes?: Comparison of generalized pipeline array using QCA.

3. What is the potential impact of this paper?: Comparison with previous results.

4. Is the manuscript technically sound?  Please explain your answer in 
the "revisions" or "comments for the authors" sections below.: Appears to be – but didn’t check completely

5. What revisions do you suggest for the paper?: The author should clearly explain how they have come up with the design given in  Figure 5. Figure 5 is not mentioned in the text at all. 
Equations 1, 3 and others are given in reference 9. I fail to understand why authors do not describe their papers by building on reference 9 rather than building on reference 8.

6. Other comments for the authors: The authors should start their papers by giving a review of reference 9 and then illustrate and prove how they have made modifications in reference 9.


Reviewer: 2

Recommendation: Revise & Resubmit (paper requires more than a minor revision)

Comments:
(There are no comments. Please check to see if comments were included as a file attachment with this e-mail or as an attachment in your Author Center.)

Additional Questions:
1. Confidence in your review: High

2. What is the important insight or idea that this paper contributes?: This paper proposed a new method for efficient hardware implementation of quantum-dot cellular automata.

3. What is the potential impact of this paper?: Minor improvement on the existing QCA implementation

4. Is the manuscript technically sound?  Please explain your answer in 
the "revisions" or "comments for the authors" sections below.: Appears to be – but didn’t check completely

5. What revisions do you suggest for the paper?: This paper proposed a new method for efficient hardware implementation of quantum-dot cellular automata. I have the following comments regarding the paper:
1- Although the topic looks interesting, I am not sure how much contribution this paper adds to the state-of-the-art. In other words, the paper came up with different hardware implementation for the work proposed in reference [9]. 
2- As the authors mentioned the new hardware implementation resulted in higher area efficiency and lower latency. If QCA is the way the future technology is going to go, we need more innovations to push this technology into the market.  
3- The paper lacks architectural innovation. I believe the proposed method needs to be combined with some innovation in the hardware to show the actual benefit. The reported improvements are coming from the gate-level implementation, rather than architecture. 

My suggestion to authors is to also focus on architecture level to show the actual benefit.

6. Other comments for the authors: 


Reviewer: 3

Recommendation: Minor Revision

Comments:
(There are no comments. Please check to see if comments were included as a file attachment with this e-mail or as an attachment in your Author Center.)

Additional Questions:
1. Confidence in your review: Medium

2. What is the important insight or idea that this paper contributes?: This paper highlights prior work in design of quantum-dot cellular automata (QCA) including the publication of a generalized piplined cellular array (GPCA) cell. The authors identify inefficiencies in the circuit design of the arithmetic unit and control unit of the GPCA design and propose a new design that leads to a reduction in area and critical path latency by 39.27% and 35.89% respectively.

3. What is the potential impact of this paper?: This paper could lead to more efficient implementations of QCAs and is a clear advancement over existing state-of-the-art. It is unclear to me the future impact of QCAs in general, but the work is well described and the improvement is impressive.

4. Is the manuscript technically sound?  Please explain your answer in 
the "revisions" or "comments for the authors" sections below.: Yes

5. What revisions do you suggest for the paper?: It would be nice to better highlight the downsides of prior work. I felt section 2.1 ended abruptly without describing the issues with these gate counts.

A brief discussion/overview of the wire-crossing problem would be nice. I understand at a very high level from VLSI that wire-crossings are difficult but are they *more* difficult for QCA design and layout? If so, briefly explain why and give a sense for how painful it is. That will help readers understand how important your contribution is.

It’s difficult in text to understand the trade-offs between different design choices. For example, following all of the changes in various gate counts of page 2 is tedious for the reader. Putting these numbers into a table or using relative numbers when comparing all design choices of each expression would be helpful. 

It would also be nice to have some sort of progressive information to show a “path” to your final design through the various design points you evaluated.

6. Other comments for the authors: There is plenty of white space and text for you to compress to add more to the paper. For example. The right column of the first page is very sparse, and the text below section 2 could be completely deleted if that space is useful to add more figures or explanatory text. x

Figure 5 is very large and for me did not add much value to the paper. Is it to show that there are few wire crossings? Is there any way to shrink it without making it unreadable? Or maybe consider removing it? (although it is a pretty figure!)

Instead of using a citation as a noun (i.e. “We compare against [9]” or “[9] used 4 gates”) you should really use the proper name for the technique and then cite it. I think GPCA[9] would be clearer. This makes Table 1 especially difficult to parse on first read.
